Let's look at how a Redis Kafka source connector works in action.
The first thing I'm going to do is make sure that Kafka and Redis are running.
I'm going to type ps-ef,
and I'm pretty sure they're not running.
I don't see a line saying Redis,
and I don't see any Java processes.
This tells me I need to start Kafka and Redis.
This button will start both of them.
I still have a spinning.
It stopped spinning. That means Kafka is up and Redis is up.
We looked at the diagram before and we were talking about how,
now that we have a Kafka source connector for Redis,
we can start streaming data from Redis to a Kafka topic.
That's been put in place.
I'm going to go look at that topic.
I'm going to switch to the Kafka bin folder and I'm going to list that folder.
We'll see I have a Kafka console consumer in there.
Because I'm in data Kafka bin,
I can say /./Kafka-console-consumer bootstrap-server localhost:9092.
The topic was, remember?
Redis server, and from the beginning.
Now, we're going to see some messages that came into Redis earlier,
and then you just see it stops.
That's because no one's using the application at this point.
Now, I'm going to go into Redis and make some data changes,
and then hopefully we should see that data come out over here.
So I'm going to the data,
Redis, Redis-stable, source, Redis-cli,
and normally you have a host parameter but it defaults to localhost,
so I'm not going to include that,
and I need to indicate the password for the Redis server,
and that's called notreally,
so -a is for the password and that's the password.
This carat means I'm at the Redis command line.
If I say keys, star,
star I'll get a list of all the Redis tables that I have.
I'm actually just going to create a simple key value pair here in Redis.
The way you do that is just using the word set.
So I'm just going to say set and now I have to give it a key.
I'm going to call it mykey,
and then for the value I'm going to call it myvalue.
Now, if I say get mykey then I have my value.
I should see this one other place.
If I go back and look at the Kafka console consumer,
I should see the data there as well in Base64 format.
Here is my key that I just created.
It doesn't look quite the same, does it?
But if I copy this,
I can do something with it.
If go to base64decode.org
and paste it in here and decode it, I have my key.
Let's see what the value was.
The value is this still.
It doesn't look right there, does it?
Let's see if we can extract that,
and we have my value.
All I've done is made a small update to the Redis database and
that update was immediately popped into a Kafka topic called Redis-dash server,
which means I could start listening to that topic in a Spark application.
I'm going to stop listening to that topic,
Control C, and I'm going to exit out of the Redis CLI using the word exit.